and accessibility as well as banking products and services to Brazos Valley citizens.
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
I'm Tom Turbyville.
You would be hard-pressed to find anyone who knows more about feeding massive numbers of people at one time than Colonel Jim Moore.
He's been involved with food service, well really, since 1945, when he was given a job as cook's helper at Fort Bliss.
A job he hated, by the way.
He's come a long way from then to having spent eight years as the Associate Director of Food Services at Texas A&M, his alma mater.
He learned much of his craft in the service, having joined the Army near the end of World War II and serving in the Korean War and in Vietnam.
And along the way, he earned some quite impressive diplomas from Texas A&M and from MIT.
Please welcome to Veterans of the Valley,
Colonel Jim Moore.
Jim, it is an honor to have you on Veterans of the Valley.
Thank you for your service.
First off, you grew up in Dallas, Sunset High School.
That's where you grew up.
You lived in Greenville for a time.
You left Dallas and went into the military in 1944.
Sort of take us from there.
You went to Oklahoma for a year and then finally went into the service.
Well, when you're in our senior year at high school, you could take a test.
And if you pass the test with the Army, it was a military type thing where they would send you off to school, specialized training program.
So a group of us from Sunset took that test and we passed it.
And then we were shipped off to Norman, Oklahoma, University of Oklahoma.
And there was a bunch of Navy people that were there.
And then there was a bunch of Army people that came in at the same time we did.
probably two or three hundred and we stayed there for a year from June of 45, 44 to June of 45.
And then when I finished that year.
You were a young guy, you were 17.
17, I went in at 17.
Right, right.
they shipped us off to Camp Anton, Texas, which was at Tyler.
And now that I think it's the Texas Medical Center over there now.
But it was the infantry basic training and basically we were getting ready, we were getting training to go to invade Japan.
Well, we were there, of course, the infantry was about a 16-week infantry basic training, and near the end of our stay there, the war was over then.
They dropped the atomic bomb, and like one of your people said before, it was nice to not have to go, because it would have been a very hard task to have been invasion of Japan.
You were pretty certain, probably, that you were going to be fighting in World War II.
That's right.
Absolutely.
Instead, you went from Tyler to Fort Bliss, which was quite a trip, about 800 miles by train.
By train.
It took us about two days to get there by train at that time.
Fort Bliss, of course, in El Paso.
First job at your first duty at Fort Bliss as a prison chaser.
What was that?
Well, they had a big stockade there, and every day the prison system, you took four prisoners, one guard with four prisoners, and you went out and did various tasks, cut grass, cleaned up the chapel, cleaned up barracks and things like that.
And I didn't like that either because that was a five and a half day.
You didn't have any time off.
You had a half a day all Sunday.
So I wasn't too happy about that job either.
And the next job you were assigned to as a cook's helper.
Did you have any idea when you were assigned as a cook's helper that that would end up being your career in food service?
No, I had no idea.
Because you didn't like it.
And I didn't like that either because you were working when all your other buddies were off.
Like you would go, they had you on shifts, and you always, I would have been working every weekend, and my friends that I ran around with, of course, they didn't, at that time, they didn't have to work on the weekends.
So I'd be working, they'd be off, and then when I was off, they'd be working, so I didn't, that wasn't very much.
But one thing that was interesting was there was a bunch of Army POW, I mean, German POWs that I worked with, and that was very interesting.
These POWs, they had pictures of all their family and most of them you could talk, speak, converse with them a little bit with English.
But none of them ever fought on the, they all fought against the Russians.
None of them ever fought against Americans.
Exactly.
Well, right here in the Brazos Valley, we have a Camp Hearn, which is a lot.
Yeah, that's right.
You know, the stories there, because that was a German POW camp also.
You went to an anti-aircraft group.
You re-upped for 12 months, and when people were starting to get discharged,
and you were an acting sergeant major.
You wanted to go back to college, and then that was your first experience at Texas A&M, because you always wanted to be an Aggie.
Your brother, who had fought in World War II, was injured in the Battle of the Bulge.
He was Aggie class of 43, so you wanted to follow in his footsteps, right?
That's absolutely right.
I probably followed him because he was also become a regular army officer, and so I just followed his footsteps and stayed in the army for 29 years.
So you came in essentially as a sophomore, which was called a frog back then.
Right.
What was the difference between a frog and a fish?
Well, I think frogs are just worse.
Well, you came in, and I came in in February of 47, and I could have gone into a VA outfit
But because my brother had gone through the hazing and things, I wanted to do also.
And that was a little testing for me because I guess I was about 20 and most of the guys, my sophomores were 17 or 18.
They were always on my rear end doing something.
go and get mail, or I was made to a junior, and I had to bake up his bed, and shine his shoes, and go get water for him at nighttime, and I didn't, that wasn't, but I gutted it out for that one semester.
What was Texas A&M like in the late 40s like that?
I mean, you look at the campus now and the school now.
Oh my gosh, it was completely different.
You walked to all your classes, you had 10 minutes to get from one class to the other, but that was no problem.
I had one class across the railroad tracks on the west campus, and that was dairy husbandry.
That was a dairy lab.
And you could hustle over there if you walked fast without any problem.
So there was no cars, very few cars on campus.
freshmen had to walk in the street.
You couldn't walk on the sidewalk.
You had to run up and meet all the upperclassmen if you didn't know them or they didn't know you.
So it was pretty exciting.
Kept it pretty busy.
You were classed in 1949.
He graduated in 1949.
And you were sent to Fort Riley for officers basic training then.
And you were also joined up by some West Point grads.
at that time, right?
There was about 600 of us there and 300 West Point grads and about 300 ROTC graduates were there.
And basically it was an infantry basic, it was an officer training center actually for officer school, for basic training is what it was.
call it ground school, ground basic training where you took map reading and you had to take a 50-calorie machine gun apart and put it back together blindfolded and those type of things.
Exactly, exactly.
You were sent back to a familiar place.
You were sent back to Fort Bliss for a while and then to Fort Sill.
Right.
And you talked about how you and your wife had gone home to Dallas.
You were driving back up to Fort Sill, and you heard something on the radio.
Yeah, the Korean War broke out.
This was about June of 26, I think.
We were driving back, and this was probably 10 or 11 o'clock at nighttime, going back to Fort Sill, and the North Koreans that invaded South Korea.
So that was, you know, sort of a, well, what's going to happen now?
Because we were getting ready to graduate from artillery school, and we had put in to go to Japan as concurrent travel.
So we just had to wait.
Well, we knew that that wasn't gonna come to pass.
So we ended up having to report out to, after we graduated in July, I think it was, we went directly out to Travis Air Force Base and I flew into Japan.
Right, you flew to Tokyo.
Stopped at Midway and had a drink, right?
That's right.
At 6 a.m.
in the morning.
That's true.
And alcohol was easy to get, but the mixer was not easy to get.
They gave you a three-fourth glass of alcohol and a fourth of a mixer.
What was Camp Drake like?
It was a replacement camp in Tokyo, right?
It was just a bunch of soldiers there.
and all of them were getting ready to ship out someplace.
Right.
And basically, they didn't have much to do, but I stayed there, I think, about two or three days.
That was it.
Didn't know exactly what direction this conflict was going to go.
There was some concern that the North Koreans might bomb Japan.
So you all were sort of in a defensive mode there, right?
Right.
Yeah, yeah.
That's when I ended up.
They sent me...
Since I'd had anti-aircraft artillery training, they sent me to an anti-aircraft battalion.
120 millimeter?
120 millimeter battalion.
We dispersed out into the rice paddies of the Japanese countryside outside of Tachikawa, which was an Air Force base.
Tachikawa had a big Air Force base there.
Right, right.
You were later moved to a howitzer team, a 105 howitzer outfit.
Well, what happened is,
as I understand it at the time was that the 24th Infantry Regiment of the 24th Infantry Division had been pretty much annihilated at Tegu and so they brought the flags back and wanted to re-establish a regimental combat team.
So then
They pulled me out of the anti-aircraft outfit and put me into this reforming of this regimental combat team.
And so it ended up in a 105 Howitzer Battalion.
I think it was, I can't exactly remember the name of it.
I think it was 63rd Battalion, Artillery Battalion.
Right.
You went to Mount Fuji in August of 1951.
And you climbed Mount Fuji, is that right?
With a longhorn.
With a longhorn, that's right.
Tell that story.
Actually, we dispersed out into Mount Fuji probably in about January or February of 1951 to do training for going to Korea.
So we were out there running through training exercises and doing maneuvers and things like that.
And in August, before that, in April 21st, was muster day, and they had a big muster at Tokyo Officers Club.
So I had a UT captain that was real nice.
He was a former lawyer, had been in the military in World War II and combat in World War II, and really a nice person.
And I asked him if we had about three West Pointers that were in our outfit.
And so I asked him if we could go down, take them down to the muster.
And he said, yeah, go ahead.
So we walked down to the train station, which was about a mile and a half, took it to Tokyo.
There's probably about 300 or 400 Aggies at that muster.
And these West Point guys were really amazed.
They said,
Man, we didn't know you had anything like that going on, where all of them mustered together and stuff, and they were very, they thought they had a good time, and they were really praising the Aggies for getting together like that.
That's a great story.
Matter of fact, later on, when you were in Vietnam, you got to go to a muster in Vietnam also.
August 15, 1951, you got on an LST for Inchon.
Right.
This must have been three days where, you know,
Young Jim Moore from Dallas, Texas, from Sunset High School, must have realized, like, it's not training anymore.
This is really it.
I'm heading off to war.
What was that like?
Well, you do a lot of sort of deep thinking, meditating, and you think about some of your past life.
And actually, I only married a year at that particular time.
And so I thought back through some of our dating time when we were courting each other
And it was a three-day trip, and we didn't have much to do.
There wasn't much to lay around on the deck or something like that.
And you think, well, you know, what's going to happen?
What actually are we getting into?
So it's very...
thought-provoking and really looking back over your life and trying to determine, well, has my life been pretty good or hasn't it?
I bet it is for a young man.
It is, I don't want to say, it's sort of exciting.
in a different and a funny way.
Sure, exactly.
I want to go ahead now, let's go to some photographs, some pictures that you supplied for us.
Some of the pictures are going to reference what we referenced in our opening.
about his career in food service, which we'll be talking about here in just a little bit.
Let's go ahead and go to some pictures now.
There is a young cadet.
I was a junior at A&M there.
Jim Moore.
Good looking.
You were a junior there.
You were past being a frog.
I was past being a frog.
You pretty much knew everything.
Right.
At least I wasn't getting hazed.
That's right.
You were on top of everything.
Yeah, good starch in the collar, shined collar ornaments.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, did they have Brasso back then?
Is that what they did?
Oh, yeah, they had some kind of Brasso.
Sure, okay, let's move on.
Next photograph.
This is in Korea?
Right.
I don't know, some barracks sitting out under the barracks or someplace in Korea.
That's the, if Norman Rockwell were to paint that picture, he'd call it the Lonely Soldier Project.
He sure would.
Just waiting for somebody to tell him what to do.
That's true.
That's what it looks like.
And somebody came up and took his picture.
Now, this was actually in Korea.
Well, this was when I sat back in 1963 as an advisor to the Korean Army.
I see.
And this is one of the local civilians that we were down in Pusan.
And so they had lots of pheasant at that time.
This was 63, 64.
And so this guy, we got to be friends.
And we used to go pheasant hunting just about every weekend.
What else is hanging there on the left side?
It looks like a rabbit.
Yeah, it looks like rabbits or foxes or something.
I don't think it's a possum.
Yeah, those are big rabbits.
But it is a rabbit.
Yeah, little rabbits too.
And then they had a bunch of geese there, too, that would come down, like in January or February, and eat the rye that was planted in South Korea.
And the Koreans didn't like that, so they wanted those killed out, too.
Okay, let's move on.
Tell us about this picture.
You're on the right, and that tree is, tell us the story of that tree.
Okay, that tree is named after me.
Mm-hmm.
My wife and I got involved with a local orphanage there in Tucson, and we had a number of money-raising campaigns to get them money to buy certain things, and we went out and visited them several times, and that's supposed to be a big honor if they name a tree after you.
And this other guy on the left, he was my friend that was with me in Korea, and we
We used to play golf together once in a while.
That tree may be 60 feet tall.
Yeah, it's old, that's for sure.
If it's still alive, it's old.
Okay, move on.
Next picture.
This is an article, I guess, in the Dallas newspaper about hometown boy making good.
We're going to talk about your Vietnam experience.
here in just a moment.
And I believe this is the story when you were awarded the... This is the Legion of Merit.
The Legion of Merit.
You also received the Bronze Star Medal in Vietnam.
And we'll talk in a little bit about the action where you earned that.
But that's that photograph.
Let's go on to the next one.
And this picture of you and Louise is a great picture at a football game, right?
1948.
I don't know what ball game it was, but it had to be September, October, somewhere.
Right.
At Kyle Field?
At Kyle Field.
And look at the guys.
The guy next to her, he's got a hat and a coat on.
The guy behind him, he's got a coat and tie.
And Louie's got her coat.
Oh, yeah.
Everybody dressed up.
A big flower.
Yeah, that was a big deal.
Everybody dressed up.
I wonder, those games in September.
They were hot.
I bet they were hot.
I bet they were shucking those coats by halftime.
I hope they were anyway.
I don't think they do that anymore.
I don't think they weren't coating ties to the game.
She had on high heels at that ballgame.
Oh, my goodness.
No, they go pretty well dressed down nowadays.
That's a great picture.
Obviously, we fast-forwarded quite a bit.
What's this?
Well, I've been promoted to colonel, full colonel, and that's depending on the eagles there.
Right.
And that's a general on the right-hand side and my wife on the left-hand side.
Looks like she just lost the backing to one of them.
Yeah, it does.
She's looking for it.
Looking for it.
Okay, let's move on.
There's a shot of a serious soldier right there.
Yeah, I don't know.
That was about the same time, I guess.
Yeah, frame time.
Frame time.
That's probably Fort Lee, I'm guessing.
Now, this is a little bit more to the present, and I've got this one up there because that is your son, Jim Jr., who is a minister in Arkansas, right?
He's a minister in Arkansas, right.
He graduated A&M in 85 and went into seminary at TCU in that same year, 85.
I noted earlier how much I thought he looked in that picture, like the previous picture that we saw of you as an A&M cadet.
Yeah, I don't think.
He was a good golfer.
We thought he was going to be.
And there you are, the cover boy.
We're going to talk a little bit later about your career in food services and food management and what a great career it has been.
And this is you at a cover of a magazine for receiving an award, right?
Right.
It was a silver plate.
It was an International Food Service Manufacturers Association Award.
Stepping on your own private plane, which I'm sure you own, right?
Because those food service people got paid a lot.
I wish.
Let's stay in Korea.
I want you to talk about one particular time when you were sunbathing on a tank and you found yourself faced off with a North Korean tank.
What happened?
Well, that's when I was in the artillery and my battery commander, things were pretty quiet.
He said, Jim, the things are quiet.
Let's just go up.
go out and jump in the Jeep and run up the front lines and see what's going on.
So we went up into an area where there was an 81 millimeter mortar platoon and there was a tank there.
And so the tank was, the North Koreans were
We're about two miles on another hill.
There's about a two mile no man land in the valley there.
And these tanks have a telescopic site.
So he had that telescopic site zeroed in on that other hill.
And every time he saw movement over there, he fired a 90 millimeter round over there.
So we climbed up on the tank and took our shirts off and actually were sunbathing.
And this tank fired.
I don't know, three or four shots, and then all of a sudden you hear this whining sound, you hear this incoming round, and so they started shooting back.
They had mortar.
We ended up in a mortar bombardment there, but anyway, I jumped off the tank, and I thought, well, maybe I'll get under the tank.
I said, well, if I get under the tank, that guy's going to pull out, and he'll run over me.
Right.
So the only space that I found to get in was a garbage dump.
So I dived into the garbage dump.
And the battery commander found another place.
He tried to get in the tank, but there wasn't enough room for him to get in the tank.
So we finally worked our way out.
And the way you work your way out is if there's two of you there, one of them listens for a mortar round coming in.
And just before it explodes, you hit the dirt.
And then as soon as it explodes, you get up and try to get, you rotate back and forth to taking time about that.
So we got the heck out of there as soon as we could.
I'll bet you did.
I need to move along a little bit because I want to get you to Vietnam.
You came home in February of 1952, went to Fort Lee, Virginia, quartermaster school.
You got out in May of 53, and then you went to MIT to get a master's in food science.
But the Army sent me to MIT.
Army sent you to MIT, of course, and they paid for it, which was a good deal.
MIT, obviously a great reputation as an academic school.
You worked hard there to get that degree, didn't you?
Yeah, very hard.
And Louise helped you.
Talk briefly about that.
Well, Louise, there's a lot of lab work involved, and so I would dictate reports to her, and she would write my lab book.
But we got into several arguments.
It'd be about 1 or 2 o'clock in the morning, and I'd be dictated to her, and she'd be over asleep.
And so I'd holler at her.
And then at the very end of the second year, I was trying to finish up my thesis work, and this was in the summer of 55.
She would go up to the lab and work to three or four o'clock in the morning, and I had to run a series of experiments, and I had to break down the experiment and reset it up.
And when I had two sets of equipment, so she had washed one set while I was setting up the other set.
So she helped me out tremendously.
I couldn't have made it probably without her.
You're going to have to fast forward a little bit.
You were sent to Germany, a commissary officer there, then to Jacksonville, Florida, at a procurement base there.
Move on to 1960, you have four children.
You have orders back to Korea as an advisor.
I think the picture that we saw a moment ago was when you were there.
You had a very nice home there.
Came home in 1965, back to Fort Lee, commissary assistant school, a battalion commander for six months.
And then you got your orders to Vietnam.
You went to Vietnam in March of 1968.
This was an awfully, it was a hot spot obviously in 1968.
Talk about your Vietnam experience and go ahead and get into the one particular experience that led to your commendation for the Bronze Star.
Well, I got over there in March of 68, and that was just after the Tet Offensive.
And then in May, they had their second Viet Cong offense.
And so I was a depot commander, and I was on the, I guess it was probably like the north side of Saigon.
It was out on a place called Cholon.
But anyway, I was depot commander, and
So one morning we wake up and here come the Viet Cong streaming down the roads and they were coming.
On one side of me they were coming down our depot side and we had, thank goodness, we had a brick wall there.
But the gunships were called in and they were rocketing the Viet Cong and it set a big fire.
And in that particular corner where the fire was, we had about, oh, I don't know, probably 40 or 50, 55 gallon drums of gasoline.
So I asked for volunteers from our enlisted men and we started moving.
Well, I went back to my old
training infantry infantry training and we set down a base of fire and and we then came under a snapper fire and we set down at the base of fire to keep the snapper busy while we were trying to move the gasoline and we eventually moved the gasoline and then things got pretty hot and we I said well we decided we needed some help so I radioed for
for some help and they sent in a combat platoon of the 25th Infantry Division.
And then we had, he had, it was a young lieutenant,
It probably hadn't been in the Army too long, but he had a really excellent sergeant, a platoon sergeant.
The platoon sergeant came in and really sort of took charge of what was going on, and the lieutenant took a patrol outside of the compound, and he came under sniper fire.
So the sergeant had a 90-millimeter rifle,
And they're not supposed to fire those things unless you get permission from higher headquarters.
But with this kid and his patrol under sniper fire, he climbed up on top of the building.
I said, well, go ahead and fire it.
If anything happens, I'll take all the blame for it.
So he let off a couple of rounds and dispersed the snipers anyway.
And so none of our guys got hit or got hurt.
Jim, we're almost out of time, and you won that accommodation for that.
Yeah, we're almost out of time.
It goes so quickly.
Didn't have time to talk about your 13 years with the state of Texas mental health and retardation in food services and your wonderful career in food services and coming back to Texas A&M.
But it was a great service.
And again, I'm sorry we're out of time, but I want to thank you very much for your service.
Well, thank you for having me.
I enjoyed it.
It was indeed an honor.
Colonel Jim Moore and his wife, Louise, celebrate their 60th wedding anniversary in 2009.
They have three daughters and a son, 11 grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
He served during three wars and saw action in two, but perhaps his proudest service to his fellow soldiers is that he helped get them all fed three squares a day.
We salute Colonel Jim Moore for his service.
I'm Tom Turbeville.
Join us next time on Veterans of the Valley.
Thank you.
In honor of the veterans who have served our country, both past and present, First National Bank, a Franklin Family Community Bank, proudly sponsors Veterans of the Valley.
Since 1862, First National has provided local decision-making